---
title: A1 Social Media Needfinding
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 1: Social Media Needfinding

## Hunch
I would like to explore how a new fitness-inspired social media app can help people achieve and encourage others to achieve their health and wellness goals.

## Interview Planning and Notes

In the following notes, **bold text** indicates scripted questions that I planned ahead of time, ***bold and italicized text*** indicates questions I improvised following the flow of the conversation, and regular text indicates the interviewee response.

## Interview 1 Notes: Donglu

### Justification:
Donglu is much older than me (55 years old), a cancer patient, and recovering from a leg surgery, meaning that her methods for staying active and taking care of her health likely differ significantly from mine. She likely also interacts with social media differently from myself. I know from prior interactions with Donglu that she uses Facebook to connect with fellow cancer patients. This will provide a very unique perspective about the intersection between social media and health/wellness. I hope to learn how someone who has struggled with blows to her health can come back from these blows and continue to work on their health using social media.

### Notes:

- **What are some social media apps that you use often?**
    - Facebook, Messenger, WeChat, LinkedIn
    - **What do you use ____ (app) for? (entertainment, news, messaging, health, etc)**
        - Facebook for most things. See posts from friends, buy from Facebook Marketplace, cancer group
        - Messenger to contact various people. Specifics she gave: to communicate with the people renting an apartment from her, to talk to her family
- **What types of exercise do you like to do? (expected answer is dancing/yoga from prior connection with Donglu)**
    - Dance, yoga, go on walks, yard work
    - **What motivates you to keep exercising?**
        - "I want to beat cancer so I can see my kids get married and my grandchildren born"
        - Seeing other people exercise/lose weight motivates her
    - **Is there anything that makes you feel unmotivated to exercise?**
        - Sometimes she feels like she is not making progress (body stays the same, doesn’t feel more energetic or healthier)
    - **Where do/did you learn how to do the exercises that you do?**
        - Youtube, Facebook group (more on this later), Google. She also asks ChatGPT to generate exercise routines for her
    - **Do you ever share your exercise routines with others? If so, where?**
        - No
- **What has your recovery from leg surgery been like?**
    - Good, just doing what doctor says (resting, not doing anything extreme)
    - ***Have you had to make significant changes to your exercise routines?***
        - Yes, hard to go on long walks now, need to do less bouncing when dancing
- **What else do you like to do for your mental, physical, emotional wellness? (ex. meditation, cooking, reading, hobbies)**
    - Sewing, cooking, reading, playing with pet cat, walks outside
    - **How do you discover new information or resources related to your health and wellness? (google, social media, tv, etc)**
        - Google, ChatGPT (similar answer to above)
- **I know from talking to you the past few years that you use Facebook to connect with fellow cancer patients. Can you tell me about how that works? (ex. Is it a group chat on messenger? A facebook page/group?)**
    - Fakebook group, people in the group can post things for everyone to see
    - **Do you know why this group initially chose to use Facebook and not some other app?**
        - She is not sure (group created long ago)
    - **How did you initially find/hear about this group?**
        - Word of mouth from her doctor who heard about it from another patient
    - **Can you show me the _____(page/chat/group) and how you interact with it? Do you often just scroll and stop on posts you are interested in? Or do you look for a specific type of post or posts from a specific person?**
        - She just scrolls (she is not sure how to find specific posts or people)
        - I notice she stops often on posts with pets in the photo and she smiles a genuine smile when seeing some of the posts of good news
    - **What type of content do people usually share here?**
        - Health updates (how treatment is going)
        - Questions (mostly ask about people’s experience on certain medications, what doctors to talk to in certain areas, resources)
        - Life updates (family, hobbies, exercise, etc.)
            - ***Can you tell me more about the life updates? What specific things do people post? How does it make you feel when you see them?***
                - Achieving or making new workout routines. She likes this because people in group give good workouts to do with limited mobility and weak health
                - "Their workouts are good because some of them can't walk either... I don't like seeing fit people demonstrate 'beginner' exercises because they do it so easily, but I can't. I'm not even good enough to be a beginner."
                - She looks embarrassed and a bit annoyed when she says this
                - Sometimes she is annoyed because there are a few people who post too often.”One lady is very fit and looks good, which makes me feel bad about myself and like I can never achieve the body she has”
                - She feels happy to see people doing well
    - **Do you participate in discussions or post content yourself?**
        - **If yes, what kind of content?**
            - She responds to posts to congratulate people sometimes on good news, and responds to questions when she knows the answer
        - **What kind of responses do you typically get?**
            - None, sometimes just “thank you” when answering questions
        - **If no, why not?**
            - Does not post photos, mostly due to privacy
            - Would be okay if the photos only stayed within a smaller subset of the group
            - Does not want photos of herself publicly online
    - **What types of feelings do you feel when scrolling on this page?**
        - Mostly happy, sometimes concerned
        - Friends asking questions or experiencing worsening health conditions makes her worry that it will happen to her as well
        - Sometimes happy when she sees that she is “keeping up with others” in terms of health, almost like a competition of who can be the healthiest
        - Sometimes "ashamed when other people are achieving more than me"
        - Doesn’t want to use cancer as an excuse to not do anything with her life
    - **Can you describe a specific instance when you saw a post or received a response from someone that made you happy? Sad? Inspired?**
        - Happy: 
            - Lots of people post about going on walks with pets or family
            - Happy to see her friends active and happy
            - ***Does seeing this kind of post inspire you to do the same? Go on walks with your family?***
                - Yes! “We just went crabbing at Castle Island a few weeks ago because I saw my friend Mary in the cancer group went fishing with her kids.”
        - Sad:
            - Recently someone very active in cancer group and very healthy suddenly passed away
            - Felt as if her exercise might not be helping her at all, she could also pass away at any moment even if she is healthy/exercising
            - ***Does this make you feel less motivated to exercise?***
                - Sort of. “I know one healthy person dying doesn’t mean all healthy people will die suddenly, but seeing this story really rattled me.”
        - Inspired: 
            - Friend in cancer group gained weight and lost hair while on chemotherapy, recently posted that they are much better after finishing treatment, lost weight, had nice wig, generally looked healthier and happier
            - Inspired her to exercise more and work on her appearance and do more things that make her happy
            - “Maybe I wasn’t inspired; maybe I was jealous, but it made me work a lot harder and want to exercise more.”
                - ***Can you tell me more about this jealous feeling? It seems like there's a contradiction here. The people in this group are all your friends and that you wish the best for them on their cancer journey, but yet you are jealous.***
                    - Yes, she wishes for them to do well, but she feels she also selfishly wants herself to do better than them.

## Interview 2 Notes: Jung

### Justification:
Jung is a student at Cedar Valley Middle School, which has many school sports teams, yet she does not participate in any. In middle school, I played soccer and was on a dance team, so her middle school experience in terms of sports/fitness is substantially different from mine. She also is much younger than me and would provide a unique take on the social media experiences of the younger generation as opposed to Donglu’s experiences of the older generation. She loves TikTok, as a lot of young people do. Jung also recently quit her school swim team, which could provide insights into what motivates/does not motivate people to work on their health.

### Notes:

- **What are some social media apps that you use often?**
    - Tiktok (favorite), instagram, reddit, twitter/X, youtube, snapchat, facebook
    - **What do you use ____ (app) for? (entertainment, news, messaging, health, etc)**
        - Tiktok: entertainment, funny/silly videos, looking for fashion trends, travel plans/ideas
        - Instagram: friends, celebrity/pop culture, book/reading content, posting aesthetic posts (especially travel)
    - **Can you show me how you use ___ (app)? Do you often just scroll and stop on posts you are interested in? Or do you look for a specific type of post or posts from a specific person?**
        - Never uses following tab on TikTok (uses For You page)
        - Mostly just scroll (watch most of videos, not much skipping videos)
        - I notice she lingers longer on comedic content
    - **How do you find communities of people that you want to interact with on these apps?**
        - Not many communities, sometimes just comment section of people she follows on TikTok/Instagram
    - **Do you follow any health or fitness related profiles on either app?**
        - Sort of, many content creators share fitness routines and photos at the gym even if that is not what they are famous for
        - ***How does it make you feel when you see these types of posts?***
            - Ashamed, problems with body image
            - Sometimes makes her want to exercise again
            - "I guess only models would go viral for their bodies, so that's the only type of body I see. Bodies like mine don't go viral." 
- **What types of exercise do you like to do?**
    - Marching band (need to do pushups sometimes, lots of walking), otherwise no exercise outside of that
    - Sometimes plays badminton with dad
    - Doesn’t enjoy other traditional forms of exercise
    - She looks more shy and possibly embarrassed while saying this
    - **What motivates you to exercise when you do?**
        - Band: “I call it trauma bonding... the hard part of marching band is the heat in Texas… Everyone else is doing it, so I’m doing it too. If everyone else can suffer through the heat, I can too.”
        - Badminton: she likes being competitive/likes winning games. She likes to smash the birdie because it makes her feel cool and excited.
        - “I like seeing my exercise ring close on my Apple Watch”
        - She laughs awkwardly while saying this
    - **Is there anything that makes you feel unmotivated to exercise?**
        - “Exercising is not hard. Once I’m at the gym, I can do it no problem, but forcing myself to go to the gym and start the exercise is the hard part. I feel dread thinking about it”
        - Doesn’t like to sweat
        - ***What are some things that help you break past that initial barrier and just start exercising?***
            - A year ago she used to go to gym with sister and mom
            - Mom was very motivated and wanted to go to the gym with her 
            - Mom had routines in the gym and showed them to Jung so that she didn't have to come up with her own
            - Jung felt that if her mom could do it, she could do it too
            - She felt better seeing her mom struggle sometimes because she felt like it was normal for her to struggle too
            - “I felt guilty for bailing on my mom if I told her I would go but then didn't”
            - “Sometimes I get spurts of inspiration when I suddenly want to exercise, but it usually doesn’t last long”
                - ***What causes these spurts?***
                    - TV show: Physical 100 about competing to be the “most fit person”
                    - Everyone had good looking bodies and looked like they worked so hard
                    - She wanted to be more like these people
                - ***Where do you find exercise routines to do when you get these spurts?***
                    - Youtube videos (very accessible and can see demonstration)
                    - Tiktok (shorter than youtube videos) so that she can just get the info and get exercising
                    - There are pros and cons to each
- **I know you quit swimming recently. What was the reason?**
    - Stress (did not like competitions)
    - Had trouble keeping up with others sometimes
    - ***How did you feel when you couldn’t keep up?***
        - Sad, tired, a bit ashamed/embarrassed
    - **Can you tell me how you felt when you went to swim practices?**
- **Is there a reason you don’t participate in any other school sports?**
    - “It was too late for me. In order to get good at a sport you need to start younger”
    - She does not feel like she is sports-inclined
    - She feels she is better at music
    - No time, busy with school
- **How do you feel when you see your friends or peers doing school sports?**
    - Had many friends on dance team
    - The uniforms were pretty and she wanted to wear one
    - Some friends played volleyball and she thought it was a cool sport and felt a bit jealous
    - She feels bad for not being as fit as her friends
- **What else do you like to do for your mental, physical, emotional wellness? (ex. meditation, cooking, reading, hobbies)**
    - Reading, watching youtube, listening to podcasts, chill and watch tiktoks
- ***You said you were stressed from swimming competitions so you quit, but competition is also a reason that you like badminton with your dad. Can you clarify the difference between these cases?***
    - She likes competition when there is not much on the line so that she is not stressed
    - "It somehow matters more to me when less is on the line"
    - "I get so competitive when I play board games with my sisters... I don't really get competitive in school or sports because it matters too much so I get stressed"


## Interview 1 Report: Donglu

Donglu's main form of interaction on social media is in a cancer support group on Facebook. In this group, members post about their life updates (including new workout routines and family activities), treatment experiences, personal milestones, and more. I saw Donglu genuinely smile while scrolling through the page seeing her friends share positive updates and achievements, which often inspire her own fitness and health goals. However, she admits this "inspiration" might actually be jealousy, as she sometimes feels inadequate when comparing her own progress to theirs. She says, “Maybe I wasn’t inspired; maybe I was jealous, but it made me work a lot harder and want to exercise more.” This tension underscores the idea that seeing others' achievements can serve as a powerful motivator, pushing her to strive for her own improvement.

Along with this, Donglu's interview surfaced the importance of personalization. As a cancer patient in her 50s with a leg recovering from surgery, Donglu needs exercise routines that are specifically tailored to her physical capabilities. She turns to her peers in the cancer group, as well as ChatGPT, to find workouts that accommodate her limitations and support her recovery. While there are plenty of exercises online marked as "beginner friendly," I was surprised when Donglu brought up an issue with these exercises that I had never thought about: "[My peers'] workouts are good because some of them can't walk either... I don't like seeing fit people demonstrate 'beginner' exercises because they do it so easily, but I can't. I'm not even good enough to be a beginner." She looks embarrassed and a bit annoyed as she says this. This highlights a broader need for fitness solutions that not only accommodate varying levels of physical ability, but also present them in a relatable and supportive way.

## Interview 2 Report: Jung

Jung uses a wide variety of social media apps, but her favorites are TikTok and Instagram. Her interview raised two surprising contradictions about her social media use and fitness, one with regards to body image, and another with regards to competition. First, Jung primarily uses social media for entertainment, fashion trends, and social connection, but she also encounters fitness content that often triggers insecurities about her body. She says that the nature of social media virality might be the reason: "I guess only models would go viral for their bodies, so that's the only type of body I see. Bodies like mine don't go viral." She looks ashamed as she says this. This again highlights the need for more relatable fitness content online. That being said, Jung also said that seeing fit bodies on the show *Physical 100* inspired her to exercise. This creates a surprising contradiction where seeing idealized bodies online both makes Jung feel inadequate and also sparks her motivation. Secondly, for Jung, a particular balance must be struck when it comes to competition. A bit of competition while playing badminton with her dad acts as a motivator, but too much competition on her swim team led to stress and made her less competitive. This highlights the need for a low-stakes, possibly gamified, take on exercise to increase motivation and engagement with fitness.

Jung's interview also touched on the importance of accountability. She shared how her commitment to going to the gym with her mom provided the necessary motivation for her to physically go to the gym. She noted that this helped her cross the toughest barrier in her fitness journey: “Exercising is not hard. Once I’m at the gym, I can do it no problem, but forcing myself to go to the gym and start the exercise is the hard part. I feel dread thinking about it." By making a commitment to to her mom, Jung felt a sense of obligation to stick to her fitness goals. This illustrates the need for a way to set fitness goals and share them with others to keep yourself accountable.



## Design Opportunities
1. **Communities**
    - Current social media does not offer easy ways to create, find, and join communities. Even with Facebook, which has many diverse groups, it is difficult for users to locate these communities that precisely match their needs. For example, Donglu only heard about the Facebook cancer group through word of mouth. Donglu said seeing “super fit” people made her feel bad about herself and feel unmotivated. It would benefit her to join communities where others also have cancer, are recovering from injuries, are around her age, or are generally at her same fitness level. Jung felt discouraged when she couldn’t keep up with others in swim team, leading her to quit. Joining a community of similar people could provide the understanding needed to stay committed.
2. **Accountability**
    - Current social media lacks integrated features for users to keep themselves accountable, so a design opportunity could be to explore some type of way to keep yourself and others on track for fitness goals. Jung mentioned feeling guilty about committing to going to the gym with her mom and then backing out, which motivated her to keep going to the gym. Having a some way to make and share commitments with others can provide similar accountability for users to follow through on their health and fitness goals.
3. **Competition/Gamification**
    - Gamifying things and adding a sense of competition makes users more interested and determined. Therefore, one design opportunity is to consider how we can gamify exercise and wellness to motivate users. Donglu remarked that she felt motivated and when she was "keeping up with others" in terms of health. This subtle competitive aspect made her more driven and engaged in her fitness routine. Jung talked about how she enjoyed a bit of lighthearted competition, which is why she liked playing badminton with her dad. She also remarked that seeing the closed exercise ring on her Apple watch motivated her to exercise.
4. **Sharing**
    - There is currently no good source for personalized and accessible workout recommendations, or a way to share these workouts with friends. Donglu remarked that her friend's workouts were better fitted for her, and that even the workouts online labeled as "beginner" are demonstrated by fit trainers who make it look easy. Jung explained that being able to use her mom's workout routine and knowing that if her mom could do it, she could too, motivated her a lot. It also made her feel better to see her mom struggle with the exercise sometimes so that she knew it was normal to struggle.