---
title: A2 Divergent Design
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 2: Divergent Design

## Broad Application Goals
Fit Kit: Your Kit for a Strong Start to Fitness


## Scrapbook of Comparables

quizlet - when you can do practice -- things you get wrong (exercises you dont know how to do) it adds to you set o fflashcards you needs to practice

nyt games - can convert your game results to text form to send to friends, daily challenges

life360 - can see where friends went in the last 24 hours --> can see what paths firends went on when going on a run

hinge/tinder - fill out your preferences and the app will help you find workout buddies

period tracker diary - allow users to talk about their emotions/feelings that day, could help user son days when they don't feel so well and reflect

Slack Kudos Bots - users can react to messages with emojis to give kudos or use various bots and integrations to send recognition and praise

pinterest boards - users can collect similar posts on pinterest into a board that can be seen by others 





## Feature Brainstorming
- **Community filters**: Users will be able to join a wide variety of very specific communitites. The "community filters" feature will allow users to filter communities by age, fitness level, workout/sport type, injuries, health conditions, and more.
- **Library of Exercises**: There will be a large library of possible exercises/workouts that users can choose from when. This is especially good for beginners who don't know where to begin with their workouts.
- **Demonstration Shorts**: Each workout/exercise will have a corresponding short video that demonstrates how to do the workout with proper form. Preferably, the demonstration is not done by someone who looks extremely fit, and is instead someone more relatable to users.
- **Personal Library**: Users can make their own personal libraries of exercises that they like to do. They can also share these with friends.
- **Goal Setting**: Users can choose from a variety of goal types and time frames, and the app will automatically create a schedule to help them achieve the goal. For example, if the goal is to go on a walk at least 10 times in a month, the app might schedule a walk once every three days to help the user achieve this goal.
- **Goal Sharing**: User A can share their goals with some User B such that the goal shows up on User B's feed/app main page. This way, the User B can keep an eye on User A's progress and help keep them accountable and committed to the goal.
- **Streaks**: Users will have a streak of x days if they exercise for x days in a row. If they miss a day, this streak resets to 0. This streak will be shown on a user's profile so that they can be proud of keeping up with exercise for some number of days in a row! Users can also set streaks to be number of weeks in a row (since daily workouts might not be realistic for some).
- **Challenge Sharing**: Users can send challenges to their communities so that all members of the community can participate in the same challenge together. The community page will show members who participated and celebrate their achievement with others.
- **Daily Challenge**: 
- **Workout Tracking**:
- **progress graphs**
- **other tracking** (what weight did you last use, what ot use next?)
- **Gym finder/machine finder** what gyms in your area have the machines/equipment you need?
- **stretches**: what stretches should i do before starting a certain workout
- **modifications** how to modify exercises for beginner/injury
- **goal score**: number of goals you've set and complete
- **pets/plants**: take care of your pet/plant by working out (if you stop using app, pet/plant will die)
- **pomodoro timer**: 
- **community leaderboards** who is the most improved this week? exercised for most minutes? etc
- **neighborhoods**: you automatically get added to the neighborhood your location is in so people can meet up in person to exercise together
- **community goals**: ex. a community sets a goal to get 500 minutes of exercise combined between all members
- **Kudos**: users can give weekly kudos to another member of their community to congratulate them on work well done or new achievements.
- **



## Value Sensitive Design Analysis

## Storyboarding and Sketching
