---
title: A5 Frontend Design & Implementation
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 4: Frontend Design & Implementation

## Heuristic Evaluation

**Pleasantness**: 

- All of the text and the buttons are very large, which can be overstimulating and unpleasant to look at.
- The sidebar does not collapse and is very large, which takes away from the rest of the content on the page and is unpleasant to look at.
- Showing Collections on the side of the main hamepage may also take away from the main purpose (posts) of the homepage, giving users too much to process at once.
- The rounded corners on all of the components are pleasing to look at since they give the page a softer and less rigid feel.

**Accessibility**:

- Large buttons and text make the interface very usable for those with motor and visual disabilities.
- Boxes around components and text boxes are thin and may be difficult to see for those with visual disabilities.
- The sidebar does not collapse and is always in the same location, providing consistent navigation that can be easily accessed by someone using a screen reader.

**Fitt’s Law**:

- When a user adds progress to their goal, a "Congratulations" screen pops up with a "x" to exit the page in the upper right corner. The add progress button on the previous page however, is at the bottom of the page, forcing users to move their cursor a lot every time they add progress.
- When saving a post to a collection, the screen to select which collection(s) to save it to is a popup right next to the save button, making it easy to click without moving the cursor much, as opposed to creating a new page that requires the user to move their cursor a lot more.
- The sidebar not being collapsable makes it more clickable. Users don't have to go all the way up to the top left corner to click a button to open the sidebar, then move the cursor down again navigate. They only need to move the cursor to the left side of the screen to navigate.

**Situational context**:

- Titles at the top of each page are descriptive and consistent with the sidebar, making it clear to the user what page they are on.
- The sidebar does not indicate when a user is on one of the pages accesible by the sidebar.
- While on the homepage, there is not specific indication that you are on the homepage.
- Community pages indicate very clearly whether or not the user is in this community.
- The save post button becomes filled in (as opposed to just being an outline) when a post has already been saved to indicate this state.

**Speak a user’s language**:

- The "Global Library" label on the sidebar might not make sense to new users, and there is no description on the Global Library page of what it is or what it does.
- The "Request to add to Global Exercise Library?" selection might not make sense to users, since making a post and making an exercise are combined into one place.

**Consistency**: 

- The save button to save a post to a collection is widely used by other platforms and is very recognizable.
- The button for making a new post is "+", consistent with other platforms, and is in a familiar location at the bottom of the page.


**Tradeoffs and improvements**:
- While the large buttons and font size are helpful for those with disabilities, they are overwhelming and oversitmulating to look at for most users. I will adjust by making the sizes just slightly smaller.
- The sidebar not collasping is helpful in terms of Fitt's Law and for those using screen readers and looking for consistent navigation, but it takes away visually from the main content of the page. I will adjust this by keeping the navigation bar uncollaspable and on all screens, but making it smaller and changing it to be a horizontal bar at the top of the page.
- To ensure accessibility for those with visual disabilities, I will increase the thickness of lines and boxes.
- While "Global Library" on the sidebar might be ambiguous to new users, we need to make sure the sidebar has succinct labels so it remains pleasant to look at and to understand. We can instead add a short description of the Global Library on its page to balance pleasantness with speaking the user's language.
- I can change the locations of buttons that will likely be pressed one after the other (such as adding progress, then "x"-ing out of the congratulations page) to be close together.
- To make sure users are aware of what page they are on, I can underline the page they are on in the sidebar if they are on a sidebar-accessible page.
- To differentiate between exercise posts and personal content posts, we can have two different screens, one for creating a new exercise post, and one for creating a new content post. This is less confusing than having "Request to add to Global Exercise Library?" while making a post.



