---
title: A6 User Testing
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 6: User Testing

## Task List

| Task | Instruction | Rationale |
| ---- | ----------- | --------- |
| Create account | "Create a new account with your choice of username and password" | This is meant as a simple warmup exercise, but is still an essential part of the app. One way it can differ from a cognitive walkthrough is that a user could see "Login" and not realize that this is where to create a new account as well. |
| Find + join a community | "Find and join a group of users who are seniors that do salsa dancing" | A user must join a community to make a post, as a key goal of the app is to foster interaction and sharing of fitness-related content with people of similar interests and fitness levels. While I, as the creator, understand the "community" concept and how it enables this interaction, new users may not immediately make that connection. They might struggle to realize that joining a community is essential for participating and that "community" is my app's version of a Facebook "group" or Reddit "subreddit", which is why user testing of this task is essential. |
| Add + delete comment | "Comment on a post in this community and then delete it" | Because my interface components for posting and commenting are visually similar, I wanted to make sure users can differentiate between the two. I also don't explicitly have the word "comment" or "reply" anywhere, so a user would need to understand the linguistic implications of the indented commenting box and the "submit" button. Deleting should be intuitive, but it is possible that users could interpret the delete button for a post as the delete button for a comment or vice versa. |
| Make an exercise post | "FitKit has a database of exercise descriptions and tutorials for users to find inspiration for workouts. Make a post in this community about how to do your favorite stretch, and add it to this database" | I am uncertain if users will understand the terminology of "Global Exercise Library," as it is not used in any other app. Will they be able to figure out that toggling the "Add to Global Exercise Library" will add it to the "database"? As well as this, posting in a specific community can be done from the homepage with a dropdown to pick the community, and from within the community's page. The homepage is the first thing a user sees when they log in, so I want to make sure they know that when within a community, that dropdown doesn't exist. |
| Create a collection | "Imagine you see some arm workouts you want to save for later when you go to the gym. Find a way to do that" | I want to make sure users understand that creating a workout set or routine is the same idea as collectioning exercise posts. This may not be an intuitive connection to some users, so this is an essential task to include. |
| Search Global Library and save posts | "Find and add three relevant exercises to your collection" | Again this will see if users can understand the wording of "Global Exercise Library." I also would like to see if users can connect this page with the idea of having a large database of exercises and being able to save these exercises into a workout collection. I also want to see if users are able to recognize the bookmark icon as being used for collectioning. |
| View someone else's collection | "Find and view the profile of another user" | One important idea of my app is that users can see the workout collections that their friends and peers have made, so a user should be able to intuitively figure out how to do that. I'm not sure whether they will find it intuitive to click on another user's username to navigate to their profile to find their collections. While clicking on a username to see a profile is common among social media apps, it might not be intuitive that another user's collections are on their profile instead of a user's posts. |
| Set a goal | "You want to hold yourself accountable to run 5 miles this week. Find a way to do this" | Setting and tracking goals is a huge part of this app, so users need to be able to do this easily. I want to make sure that users can associate "holding themselves accountable" and "tracking progress" to my goaling concept/feature. |
| Complete a goal | "You ran 3 miles one day this week, and 3 miles another. Track your progress" | Similar to above, setting goals and tracking is essential, so the functionality so be smooth and intuitive. |
| Set community goal | "Your senior salsa group wants to as a community take 10 salsa classes over the next week and track this progress throughout the week. Find a way to do this" | After setting and completing a user goal, the user might try to set community goals in the same place and not understand how to do it, or they might not understand the difference between community and individual goals. This is intuitive to me as the designer, but might be a new concept to a user, so they should be able to figure out how to navigate to the community and set a goal there. |


## Study Reports

#### User Testing Interview with Matthew
My first interviewee provided valuable insights into both the strengths and challenges of the app. One of the first issues arose when I asked him to make a post about his favorite stretch and add it to the Global Exercise Library. He began typing in the posting form, then hesitated and stopped, asking if this should be done in the same place as "regular posting." He also asked if an exercise needed to relate to a specific community to be posted there. This shows how his mental model of the app had "regular posting" and posting exercises as separate ideas. Additionally, when I asked him to add three exercise posts to his collection, after adding the first post, he looked visibly annoyed with the process. He remarked "oh, my search disappears when I click the back button," refering to how the search results were lost upon navigating back to the Global Exercise Library, requiring him to search "arm" again for each arm exercise he wanted to add. He began clicking quickly and less carefully, showing that even adding just three exercises to the collection was a tedious process.

Despite these challenges, the participant found the app’s layout to be clean and manageable, saying that everything was on its own page and never felt overwhelming. He appreciated that every task I asked him to do had its own separate dedicated place on the website, and "there were never too many things going on...I mostly knew what I had to press without looking all over the page or trying ten different buttons. When I want to post something, there's a 'create post' button, and when I want to create a goal, there's a 'create new goal' button." This shows that the labeling, semantics, and general structure of the website were intuitive, direct, and understandable, and that the modularity of different tasks/concepts was good throughout the site. Finally, Matthew stated that the aesthetics of the website were pleasing. He liked that there were a few bright colors to highlight important buttons, but not too many colors to be painful to look at. He also liked the rounded edges and general visuals of the app.


#### User Testing Interview with Will
My second interview also provide both positive insights and areas for improvement. Similar to the first interview, Will seemed to have trouble with the idea of exercise posts. When attempting to create an exercise post, he first looked all around the page, and then wondered aloud if he needed to go to the Global Exercise Library page to post exercises. Then, after navigating there and seeing that there was no place to make a post, he navigated back to the homepage to use the posting form. He then hesitated again but began slowly typing. After just typing the words "this is how to," he looked to me as if for validation to continue. After I didn't make any indication of a response, he asked "What format should I do this in?". This again suggests some discrepency between the app's structure and my user's mental model of posting, as well as a some difficulty across the gulf of execution. Another few moments of confusion arose when he tried to save an exercise to a collection. First, when he navigated to the Global Exercise Library page, it displayed "No exercises found" while loading, leading to brief confusion. Additionally, when saving a post, he simply clicked the bookmark icon and “Save” without first creating a collection, expecting the exercise to automatically save to a new collection. Since there was no error message, he assumed the item had saved successfully. However, he then noticed that the bookmark icon didn't fill in as it usually does in other apps and questioned whether or not he had correctly saved the post. After this, he navigated to "My Collections" and realized he had to first create a collection. This process indicates some confusion across the gulf of evaluation, as my tester couldn't tell whether an action had succeeded. 

Like Matthew, Will echoed that he found the site’s overall design appealing, commenting that “the site is pretty,” and that "buttons and chunks of stuff are where I expect them to be, ordered on the page how I expect,” where I interpreted "chunks of stuff" to mean groups of UI elements such as all the elements of a post. This intuitive layout contributed to his confidence in navigating the app overall. He also appreciated the prepopulated data, noting that initially, he wasn’t sure if communities would be more like groups of friends, geographically-based, or something else. The prepopulated data clarified that the purpose was to create a sense fo community among users with similar experiences and challenges, fitness levels, and health goals.





## Opportunities for Improvement

- Separation of posting and exercise posting
    - Flaw: Both interviewees struggled with the idea of exercise posts. Users found it unclear whether exercise posts had to be posted in communities that related to the exercise. The checkbox on the posting form for exercise-related posts was subtle, leading them to believe they needed to navigate to the Exercise Library to add these posts. Whether or not there was some strict formatting for exercise posts was also unclear. These confusions stem from the fact that the users' mental models of exercise posting and "regular posting" were separate, whereas the app's actual structure combined them into one idea.
    - Severity: major
    - Level: conceptual (user mental model doesn't match app model)
    - Solutions: To better align with users' mental models, I could separate exercise posting from regular posting. The regular posting form would remain as is, without the Global Library checkbox. Instead, users would go directly to the Global Exercise Library page to add a new exercise post. To address formatting, the exercise post form could ask for specific fields like the exercise name, a short description, targeted muscles/body parts, and a tutorial link. This structure would allow the backend code to do the formatting, removing the burden on users. Lastly, I could add a dropdown in the exercise form, allowing users to optionally share the exercise with a relevant community.
- Inefficient searching of Global Exercise Library
    - Flaw: users found adding exercises to collections to be tedious because their search results disappeared when clicking the back button after clicking into an exercise to save it, causing unnecessary re-searches. I also notived that different results appeared depending on if the user searched for "arm" or "arms" due to my searching logic.
    - Severity: minor
    - Level: physical and linguistic (user is forced to do unnecessary clicking/searching due to site structure and layout)
    - Solution: I should save searches so that users can return to the page with their same search results. I could also add filtering by targeted muscle group to avoid this "arm" vs. "arms" issue. Additionally, I could make the exercise "cards" include a bookmark save button so that users don't have to click into that specific exercise in order to save it.
- Managing collections
    - Flaw: Users struggled with creating and adding exercises to collections. In the interviews, users attempted to save items without first creating a collection, assuming the app would auto-create or auto-save. Part of the problem was the absence of feedback, like an error message or something that tells them to first create a collection.
    - Severity: moderate
    - Level: conceptual and linguistic (users made assumptions about saving behavior that my app did not match, and there was no tooltip that indicated any intructions to follow)
    - Solutions: I could add the option to create a new collection right in the popup that appears when a user clicks the bookmark to save a post. I should also add a tooltip that prompts the user to first create a collection if they haven't before saving a post.
- Loading messages
    - Flaw: Some loading messages were misleading and caused confusion. The Global Exercise Library showed "No exercises found" while loading, leading users to briefly believe that the library had not been populated.
    - Severity: minor
    - Level: physical (perception of delay)
    - Solution: I should change this message to "loading" instead, or I can load the exercises one at a time so that the user can see the progressive increase in the number of results and interpret that as loading.
